Years ago, I had an experience.
An experience of light.
My whole body was
filled with light.
I felt connected by that
light to the universe.
I became conscious an
exquisite radiance permeating
the fabric of all life.
I saw that every living thing
has its own special luminous
quality.
I felt a yearning
to understand it.
I realized from my experience
that the source of that light
is reborn in every
moment of creation.
And I've come to see that
everyday light is just
the visible aspect of
that infinite light,
which in reality isn't out
there someplace, but right here.
We begin this journey
with the familiar world.
The world around us.
We live in a world
of light and shadow.
Light has many faces.
The Earth itself is
filled with light.
Fire.
A primal force.
A universal symbol of energy.
Holy light appears
in every religion.
In every Jewish synagogue,
a light burns day and night.
The Sabbath is celebrated
with candlelight.
Chanukah, the Hebrew
festival of lights.
The Buddha radiated light,
according to his disciples.
They say the rays of
knowledge rose like a light
above his head and around him.
The light of Christ begins
with the Annunciation.
Those whose lives were touched
by his shared his radiance.
In his healing ministry, Christ
was said to channel light.
According to the New Testament,
his face did shine as the sun.
In every faith, the teacher
embodies inner light.
The faces of some
Indian and Sufi teachers
communicate this
glowing presence.
Ancient Indian scriptures
say that we could
become as gods, with the visible
light of heaven manifest in us.
Since the beginning
of time, people
have tried to fathom the
mysteries of celestial light.
At Stonehenge, the sun,
the stars, and planets
were observed, revealing
the progressions
of heavenly bodies.
The sun was worshipped
for centuries in Egypt,
revered as a
compassionate force,
communicating
directly with humans.
Each ray extending a hand to
accept offerings and give life.
The sun, a fiery
sphere of light.
A mandala.
A mandala is a sunlike
form, a symbol of wholeness,
a way of understanding
and experiencing
different levels of reality.
Like the sun radiating
from a center
its design ignites inner light.
A place of worship
is designed to use
light to heighten the senses
and invite the spirit.
Some say that the body
itself is a temple of light.
It's as if there's a sea of
electricity in the human body.
Perhaps holy light is not just a
metaphor, but an actual energy.
Can we know the electrical
patterns of our inner worlds?
High-energy photography records
the electrical discharge
as a current is passed
through living things.
Our lives are connected
to the energy of all life.
We are radiant beings.
Not only the radiance, but
the rhythms of the universe
touch our lives.
Time brings changes.
While one part carries
a message of new birth,
others complete their cycles.
And life is embraced by
the darkness of death.
Ancient texts to speak of
light in the afterlife.
From the "Book of the Dead"--
"Do not forget this secret.
When your mind
and body separate,
you can see the
primary clear light."
It's like a mirage--
subtle, but bright.
Do not be afraid.
It is the same light
you also radiate.
Is there light after death?
Similar reports come from
people who've returned to life
after being pronounced dead.
Going down a tunnel
with a light at the end.
At first, the light is dim,
growing gradually brighter.
And with it, a feeling of
great love and the infinite.
There's a great desire within
me to know how the world works.
To understand the intention
of physical matter.
Yes and yes and yes
again, cries out my heart.
Today, I touch the Earth.
And willing and loving, she
then touches me in return.
Oh, great mother, guide me.
Show me that pressing, lifting,
blinding light of love.
Born in eternity.
And living in all that is.
All that is, walk with me now.
Clear my mind.
Clear my eyes.
Clear this, my body, that
I might receive you fully.
And let me become
a giver of light.
[MUSIC PLAYING]